Well, good morning.
I hope you can hear me.
My name is Gary Hoo.
I'm a software engineer with the data
security group at Apple Computer,
and I'm going to be talking
to you about the Authorization
Services subsystem today.
Now, before I get into the actual
content of the slides,
I should perhaps issue the
requisite caveat that Authorization
Services is a Mac OS X technology.
It is, in particular,
not an iPhone technology.
So if you are looking for something
directly applicable to the iPhone,
this perhaps is not
quite the right session.
However,
if you are going to be developing
for the iPhone on Mac OS X,
you might want to stay for a while.
I'm going to be talking about the
Authorization Services subsystem today.
I'm going to be talking about what
Authorization Services is and why
perhaps you ought to consider using it.
I'll be going over some fundamental
concepts of Authorization
Services and I'll be going through
an example of the use of the APIs.
Authorization Services is
fundamentally a policy subsystem
that answers the question,
can this user perform
this particular action?
Now, Authorization Services,
by virtue of its evolution,
has had to be extensible,
it's had to be customizable,
and it has very definitely
had to be GUI-friendly.
Because a lot of the time you're entering
a password as part of authorization.
Now, in case you were wondering
whether we actually use
authorization services in-house,
well, we've managed to sneak it into
a few corners here and there.
Now, for some reason,
this panel got a little shrunk
on my copy of the slides.
I don't know how it looks out there.
But if you've never seen this
before because perhaps you
have auto-login turned on,
this is the login panel that you see
when you first log into Mac OS X.
And this is quite literally a side
effect of an application-making and
authorization services API call.
You type in your password,
your name and your password in this case,
and authorization services in the
background does a whole host of
interesting and potentially dangerous
things on your behalf as part of login.
And then once your name and
password have been validated,
login proceeds, desktop shows up,
finder starts,
all the rest of that good stuff.
But what you see right here is
you're right in the middle of
an authorization services call.
All right.
So, why use it?
Well, as you can see,
it does tend to save you a little
bit of work because you can leverage
Mac OS X frameworks and user interface.
Granted, you're probably not going to be
reusing the login panel for anything,
but there is other UI in there that
you will almost certainly be using.
Also, if your system administrator
at your site decides,
or your customer site decides,
to swap in a new
authentication mechanism,
for example,
he decides that names and passwords
are no longer fashionable,
it's now time to go to fingerprint
readers or to retinal scanners or
to blood samplers or something else,
your application does not have to change.
And if that system administrator
decides that the retinal scanner
is no longer a good idea,
he wants to go back to
names and passwords,
or he wants to move to smart
cards or something else,
again,
your application just does not change.
Which brings me to the second point,
which is Authorization Services makes
less work for your customers because
they don't have to rev your application
if they change their security policy.
They can customize policy
for the entire system,
not on a per-application basis.
It makes their lives much easier.
Authorization Services also tends to
encourage you to factor your code into
pieces that can run with privilege
and pieces that do not have to.
I'll go over what that means in
greater detail a little bit later.
Authorization Services also supplements
the venerable Unix permissions model.
Now, for those of you for whom
that may be not as familiar,
perhaps,
Unix permissions basically subdivides
the world into three groups.
The user, or the owner,
of a file or process.
One single group associated with a
file or process and then everybody
else in the rest of the world.
And this works great
for a number of things,
but it's a little difficult for
that kind of model to address,
gee, I'd like group A and group B to
be able to administer the printer,
for instance.
And again,
as you saw before with the login example,
Authorization Services also
allows you to extend policy to
include various complex tests,
user interface, associated actions.
So one thing that we have baked
into OS X right now is what do you
do if an application needs to add
something to your default keychain
and your default keychain isn't there?
Oh, keychain, by the way,
for those of you new to OS X,
is basically a bag in which we
encourage users to place passwords,
private keys,
other sensitive information.
Every user by default is
given a default keychain,
but something can happen
to that default keychain.
The user may accidentally delete it.
Various bad things can happen to it.
And so any time an application wants to
use the default keychain for something,
and if it can't find it,
what happens kind of silently and
transparently in the background
as far as that application is
concerned is the system says,
oh, there doesn't seem to be
a default keychain here,
so let me put up a user
interface that asks,
there's no default keychain.
Would you like me to reset
your default keychain for you?
If the user says yes,
the user is then prompted via
further user interface for a
password to protect that keychain.
And if a password is provided,
then the reset keychain
operation proceeds.
This is all a side
effect of authorization,
and that authorization in turn
is a side effect of applications
simply wanting to use the default
keychain and not finding it there.
So some fundamental concepts that
I want to go over before I get
into the actual authorization APIs.
First,
I want to clear up that authorization and
authentication are two distinct concepts.
Second, I want to talk about factors.
I want to talk about
why it's a good idea,
and then I'll go into some concepts of
authorization that you need to know,
as well as a few system processes
and files that conspire to provide
the authorization subsystem.
So, authorization is not authentication.
That's something to get clear right now.
And that's because in the literature,
if you ever read security literature,
which is a great way to put
yourself to sleep at night,
by the way, but let's not go there,
you will notice that these two terms
have very specific and precise meanings.
Authentication is simply
verification of the user's identity.
Authorization, however,
asks the question,
assuming we can authenticate this user,
what can this user do?
So authorization might
require authentication.
There's at least one example, by the way,
on OS X where it doesn't,
and that's when your DVD player
has been set to some particular
region because it got set that way
when you first inserted a DVD with
a region code into your system.
You insert another DVD into your
system with a different region code,
and because you can only reset that
region code a certain number of times,
OS X detects this and says, well,
you know,
we certainly don't want to reset the
region code out from underneath the user
without at least giving him a chance
to object so he doesn't burn through his
N number of resets and then suddenly find
himself locked on a region 4 DVD player
when he's really living in region 1.
So there all we do is pop
up a dialog that says,
do you want to reset the region
or something to that effect?
And there is no authentication required.
You just click yes or no.
But most of the time, authorization does
require authentication,
and in fact, it might dictate the form
of that authentication.
So now on to code factoring.
Essentially what this means is dividing
up your code into that part of the code
that has to do something privileged,
that is to say it needs
to run as the root user,
and all the rest of it,
which is generally the much
greater part of your code,
which doesn't need to run as root.
Now,
running as Root in one big application
is enormously tempting because it
means you don't actually have to change
a line of code that you've written.
However,
Root is virtually unchecked on OS X and,
in fact, on most Unix systems.
There is great potential
for Root to do good and,
therefore,
correspondingly great potential
for Root to do not good.
Therefore,
running as Root requires self-restraint,
and factoring your code forces you
to implement that self-restraint.
Now, minimizing the amount of privileged
code means that you minimize the
amount of source code that you have to
audit to make sure that that code is
not doing particularly silly things,
dangerous things.
It's not calling bad APIs.
It also tends to minimize the amount
of external linkage that you have,
external libraries and frameworks that
you've got to link into your code.
And all that does tend to minimize is
unexpected interactions and side effects.
The less there is,
the less can go wrong in general.
There are always exceptions.
Okay, now to some fundamental
concepts of authorization.
I'm going to go over
each of these in turn.
What is a right?
What is a rule?
The policy database,
the system processes that actually
conspire to implement authorization.
I'm going to talk about some ancillary
data that we call hints and context,
and also plug-ins and mechanisms,
which is how you extend the
functionality of authorization.
organization.
So a right is a pretty
fundamental concept,
and it's a pretty basic one.
It's not hard to grasp.
It just identifies a
privileged operation.
And as such, it has some condition or
conditions that have to be met
before that right can be granted.
Now, as far as the names of rights go,
we do have a convention that
says it ought to be something
along the lines of com,
company, application, right.
However--
The way you name your write
is pretty much up to you.
And as long as you avoid a couple
of restricted Mac OS X-specific
write hierarchy names,
it's up to you how you want
to name what you're doing.
Now, because of the way that we
structure write names with dots
between various significant pieces,
we can support the concept
of a wildcard write,
which is simply one
whose name ends in a dot.
If a specific right that's
requested by an application
can't be matched exactly by name,
then the system starts stripping
off pieces of that name in order
to see if it will match a prefix,
that is to say a wildcard
right within the system.
And if it does, then whatever conditions,
whatever rules are associated with
that right apply to the one that
the application is requesting.
So wildcards are a way to
create a set of rights.
to which all the same rules apply.
Now, those reserved name hierarchies
I mentioned earlier are
SystemDot and ConfigDot.
These are both used by Mac OS X.
ConfigDot in particular is used
by the authorization subsystem
itself in order to manage changes
to the authorization subsystem.
So if you're an application developer
and you want to start naming your rights,
please avoid anything in the
SystemDot and ConfigDot hierarchies.
So a rule, a condition that has to be
met in order to grant a right,
very basic concept.
Now there are several different--
concepts that I want to go over.
Actually, there's only two.
All right.
There's the concept of rule class,
and there are some rule
properties that tend to apply
to multiple classes of rules.
All right, now, these rule classes,
there are three of them that are
essentially true classes of rules.
That's user evaluate mechanisms
and the so-called delegation rule.
And then there are a couple
of singleton rule classes,
allow and deny.
And allow just says, yes.
If the rule granting
your right is allowed,
then your right is always granted.
And if the rule covering
your right is denied,
then that rule can never be granted.
The default rule I'll go over shortly.
It's basically the rule that gets
applied if no other particular rule has
been specified for the requested write.
So, first rule class,
the user rule class.
This essentially is a
shorthand for user in group.
Now, the group is typically admin,
but it certainly doesn't have to be.
There are already instances in Leopard
of groups that are not admin that
still are used to grant particular
rights baked into the system.
A special instance of a user
rule is the session owner.
The session owner is the current user
that is logged in at this particular
console or via this particular SSH login.
And as long as I'm mentioning sessions,
I might as well clarify that a
login session is its own domain as
far as authorization services go.
And in particular,
a write granted in one login
session is not automatically
granted in any other login session.
So the fact that you authorized
for a particular write logged in at
the console does not mean that your
SSH login into the same system has
acquired that write and vice versa.
That's actually kind of important to
know when you're writing applications
and as users of the system.
The Evaluate Mechanisms class is how
you extend authorization functionality.
A mechanism is a chunk of
code that just operates on or
acquires authentication data.
And as such, a mechanism can put up UI,
it can have side effects on the system,
it can pass data to other mechanisms
that execute subsequent to it,
and these mechanisms
can run as root or not.
They don't have to run as root.
Mechanisms, for convenience's sake,
live in plug-ins,
and I'll be going over plug-ins
and mechanisms in greater
detail in a little bit.
So here's an example of an
evaluate mechanisms rule.
The write in question is system.shutdown.
This write is invoked whenever
you try and shut down the
system or restart the system.
And there are users logged in in the
background via fast user switching.
There is a plug-in called
Restart Authorization.
It's a standard plug-in
that ships with the system,
and it has at least three
mechanisms associated with it.
It has
Shut down, authenticate, and success.
And these mechanisms each
perform a different role.
One of them puts up UI and the
others actually evaluate the results
of that UI when you type in an
administrator's name and password and
actually give clearance to shut down
the system or to restart the system.
The Delegation Rule allows you to use
one or more built-in rules on the system.
There is a rules dictionary that lives in
the policy database that defines all the
built-in rules available on the system.
And there is something called
the K of N property that can
apply to delegation rules,
and that allows a subset
of rules to grant right.
And we've got an example
of such a rule right now.
And in particular,
you see that K of N is 1 here.
N is 3.
There are three possible built-in rules
that actually can apply to this right.
Is LP admin, is admin,
and the default rule.
However, since K of N is 1,
only one of those rules has
to be satisfied in order for
this right to be granted,
in order for you to be able
to administer printers.
Which brings me to the default rule.
Again, it's used if no other rule
is specified for a write or,
as seen in the previous example,
it can also be used explicitly.
Now, the default rule
requires you to authenticate as an admin,
and the credential that gets generated
by successfully authenticating
has a five-minute timeout,
and that credential can be
shared by any other process
within the same login session.
So a few rule properties,
some of which we've seen before.
Authenticate user is a Boolean
property that simply says,
can we throw up user interface
to the user if it's necessary?
If it's true, then you'll see dialogues.
If it's not true,
then no dialogues can be displayed,
and your rule had better
succeed on its own.
The session owner property
we already discussed.
Again, that's the user that's currently
logged in on that login session.
The shared property simply means whether
that credential can be used by other
processes in the same login session.
And the timeout, again, we already saw.
The only detail here to notice
is that it is specified in
seconds in the policy database.
You can specify also a zero timeout,
which means the credential is
essentially invalid pretty much
as soon as it's been created.
And an infinite timeout is also possible.
It's not technically infinite,
but it will probably be long
enough for your purposes.
The policy database is where all
the rights and rules currently
available on the system are listed.
It's not actually technically true
that it lists all possible rights.
Applications can request
any right they like.
If a right is not matched
in the policy database,
the default rule will automatically
be applied to that right.
The policy database is a flat file.
It's ETSI authorization.
It is currently plain text.
You can edit it with your
favorite text editor and sudo,
but we do not guarantee that
the format of that file will
not change going forward.
We've been kicking around the
idea for some time of changing
the format of that file.
Naturally, if we do,
we'll give plenty of notice.
Now, as far as the system processes that
actually implement authorization,
there are three of them.
At the heart of
authorization is Security D,
the security demon.
Starts at startup, at boot time,
runs until your system
is shut down again,
and Security D is where the actual
authorization policy engine lives.
SecurityD, however,
does not do user interfaces.
It does not link against AppKit.
It will never show dialogues,
at least not as long as the current
maintainer is maintaining it.
So if SecurityD, or more appropriately,
the policy engine within
SecurityD determines that
user interface is necessary,
SecurityD has to spin off
a security agent process to
handle that user interface.
Security Agent literally is
Security D's user interface agent
that is its sole purpose in life.
When it acquires
information from the user,
it passes it back to Security D,
and Security D uses it
for whatever purposes.
In the case of authorization,
the policy engine takes in
usually names and passwords and
crunches them to make sure that,
in fact,
the names and passwords are correct.
Now, there is one case also where
SecurityD needs to spin
off another agent process,
and that is when it has to run,
as part of authorization,
a plug-in mechanism.
We decided a while ago that
running plug-ins within
SecurityD was not a good idea,
and so we created the
Authorization Host process,
which runs root running, that is to say,
privileged plug-in mechanisms.
That is Authorization
Host's sole role in life.
So a typical request here starts off
with a client application making its
authorization request to SecurityD.
I'm not good enough with Keynote to
show a spinning arrow inside SecurityD,
but that would basically be the policy
engine going over whatever rules apply to
the right that the client is requesting.
Now, let's assume for a moment that the
client is requesting a right that
requires user interaction of some sort.
Then SecurityD,
if a security agent process
is not already running,
will start a security agent process.
And the graphics people lied to
me that text was not supposed
to be truncated like that.
Sorry.
So Security Agent process gets
launched and SecurityD makes its
request to Security Agent to acquire
the appropriate or to display the
appropriate user interface and
to acquire whatever information
it deems necessary from the user.
That information is
returned to SecurityD,
policy engine crunches some more,
and determines that, oh, well,
a route running mechanism
needs to be run.
Again, if...
An authorization host process
is not already running.
One is spun off.
SecurityD makes its request
to Authorization Host to
run a particular mechanism.
Authorization Host runs that mechanism,
sends its return to SecurityD.
This process of calling into
Security Agent and Authorization
Host from SecurityD and getting
back results can happen an arbitrary
number of times for any given write.
But eventually, SecurityD decides,
or the policy engine
within SecurityD decides,
yes or no as far as do we grant
or deny this requested write,
and a response is sent
back to the client.
So, ancillary information can be provided
by either the client or provided by the
authorization subsystem itself in the
course of evaluating a set of rules.
This ancillary information,
if it's provided by the client
or provided pre-evaluation,
is called, or we call them hints.
Now, in the APIs for authorization,
you'll see those as the
authorization environment that
gets passed into the API calls.
It's basically input to
assist authorization,
and one common piece of input is the
administrator's name in a dialog.
If the user happens to be logged
in as an administrator and an
administrator's name and password
is required for a given rule,
then the administrator's
name will be in dialog.
the dialogue when it pops up.
Now the one thing about hints is that
they are not preserved after evaluation.
The assumption is they don't have to be.
They were just
Little crutches,
little bits of assistance
to authorization,
not strictly necessary.
Context, however,
is necessary.
Context consists of byproducts
of policy evaluation.
Context may or may not be
available to the caller.
There are certain things that you might
not want the caller to be able to see,
for example, perhaps the user's password.
It's worth noting that the authorization
subsystem helps to ensure that
client processes never need to
actually see the user's password
unless they actually need to do
something with that user's password.
If all that the application needs
is for the user to authenticate,
the application never
needs that password,
and authorization ensures that the
application does not get the password.
This ancillary information,
both hints and context,
is all managed by the Policy Engine.
So how do you go about extending
authorization's functionality?
You write a plug-in and
a set of mechanisms.
Now these tend to be very
application specific.
Now, all a plug-in is is a
bundle of mechanisms,
quite literally a CFBundle.
Application-specific
mechanisms can be installed in
/library/security/securityagent plug-ins.
You do have to be an admin
to write into that directory.
The naming convention is plugin.bundle,
where plugin is whatever
plugin name you decide.
We saw an example of one earlier,
the restart authorization bundle.
That's a system bundle that lives
in a slightly different location,
but it gives you the flavor of
application-specific bundles.
Now, in ETSI authorization,
in order to use a bundle,
in order to use a plug-in
and a set of mechanisms,
you have to specify as part
of the evaluate mechanisms
class the name of your plug-in,
along with the mechanism name.
Now, if the mechanism name has a
comma privileged following it,
that means that that mechanism
is intended to be executed within
the context of authorization host.
That is to say,
it's going to run as root.
Now, there is one reserved plug-in name.
Please do not use the
plug-in name built in.
That is, naturally enough,
what we use internally to Mac OS X.
You may get some interesting
misbehavior if you decide to try to
use that for your own mechanisms.
Now, the plug-in lifecycle.
Plug-ins essentially are the way that
mechanisms talk to the policy engine.
Plug-ins manage mechanisms.
So plug-ins, once they're instantiated,
their main role in life
is to stage mechanisms,
to control the mechanism lifecycle.
Mechanisms themselves have
four major stages in life:
creation, invocation, deactivation,
and destruction.
Now,
there are a few places where mechanisms
interact directly with the policy engine.
One of them is the getting and
setting of hints and context.
Another is actually setting
the evaluation result.
So when a mechanism runs,
it's got to say whether it allowed or
denied or whether the user canceled,
potentially.
Now,
mechanisms can also interrupt evaluation.
This is something that
bears some attention.
Mechanism interruption can happen if
something about the system changes,
such that you might want to restart
this entire authorization evaluation.
Now, currently in Mac OS X,
there's one place where I know
of that that specifically occurs,
and that is if your system is
configured to permit smart card login,
and somebody actually plugs
a smart card into the system.
Now, if the system is sitting at the
login prompt or the login panel,
then suddenly it doesn't make
any sense for the user to type
in a name and a password anymore.
If the smart card has been plugged in,
then what the user needs
to do is to type in a PIN.
Now,
we've decided that we need to display a
different user interface in that case.
So when somebody plugs a
smart card into such a system,
the user interface changes.
That actually is a side effect of an
interrupt being sent to the entire
mechanism chain for login and evaluation
of that mechanism chain restarting,
only this time there's a little bit of
information in the context that says,
hey, there's a smart card present.
Therefore,
different user interface is displayed.
So that's one case where I know where
interrupt evaluation is necessary.
And finally,
because mechanisms can be interrupted,
They need to confirm that
they have actually deactivated
themselves if they happen to be
running when an interrupt occurs.
And that way,
the policy engine knows that it's
safe to go and restart the evaluation.
Now, one particular plug-in that might
be of interest to you is one called
the SF Authorization Plug-in View.
It's essentially our attempt
to provide developers with a
base for custom user interface.
It adds a special view,
an application-specific view,
to authentication dialogues.
It's in Objective-C, which is, of course,
how we expect people to be
writing user interfaces on OS X.
Thank you.
I'm not going to say a
whole lot about this,
but I will refer you to the
proper header file and some
documentation a little bit later on.
Now I'm going to go over an actual
example of using the authorization APIs.
Better Authorization Sample is code that
is available up on developer.apple.com.
It's an example of using
Cocoa and authorization together.
It is properly factored code.
[Transcript missing]
And from my standpoint,
perhaps the most important thing about
Better Authorization Sample is that it
is very well commented and it explains
why the code looks the way it does.
So, Better Authorization Sample
factors the code into two pieces,
the GUI front end,
that is to say the application,
and a helper tool that runs privileged,
it runs as root.
Now the way it typically operates,
the application pre-authorizes.
That is to say, it acquires rights on
the helper tool's behalf.
User interaction, therefore,
happens within the context
of the application.
That has certain nice consequences
for the user interface in that we
can gather a lot more information
about the actual end user,
like the username and whether or not that
user is an admin and certain preferences,
than we could if the
authorization were to happen in
the context of the helper tool,
which will be running as root.
Now, the application,
if pre-authorization is successful,
forwards the authorization reference
that it gets to the helper tool.
And then the tool verifies that the
authorization was actually granted,
and then and only then does
it do its privileged work.
This is a general model for
how to use authorization.
So this is the window that
you'll see when you first start
Better Authorization Sample.
There are three actions
that are defined there.
One of them is just getting
the version of the application.
One of them is getting the real and
effective UIDs for the helper tool.
And then the last button there
gets a set of low-numbered ports.
And on OS X, as on other Unix systems,
low-numbered ports,
that is to say network ports below 1024,
can only be given to
root-running processes.
So the actual authorization-gated
operations in Better Authorization
Sample are getting the real and
effective UIDs of the helper tool,
getting those loaner reports,
and an invisible one,
installing the helper
tool in the first place.
So, as an example,
let's see what happens when
the application needs to
get some low-numbered ports.
Now, the write it is requesting here is
com.example.betterauthorizationsample.low
numberedports.
And that uses the default rule,
which to refresh your memory
requires that you authenticate
as a member of the admin group.
And the credential that gets generated
is subject to a five-minute timeout,
and that credential can be
shared by any other process
running in the same session.
So the first step that the application
takes in order to get that right
is to get an authorization ref.
An authorization ref is your handle
into the authorization subsystem.
And you get that handle with
the authorization create
Call.
Now, the first two arguments to
authorization create are both
null because the first argument is
the write that you would request.
Well, in this case,
we don't actually need
to request a write.
We're just interested
in getting a handle.
The second argument would be any
hints that you want to pass in.
In this case,
we're not passing any hints,
so that again is null.
The flags argument, which is the third,
allows you to customize the
behavior of the authorization
subsystem in some regards.
And in this case,
we're not actually asking
to customize any of that,
so we set it to default.
And the last argument is the address
of an authorization ref object.
Now,
in spite of the fact that the variable
that the Better Authorization sample
writers decided to use for the return
of Authorization Create is called junk,
it's actually worth paying attention to.
Any call that returns any error
code needs to be paid attention to.
And so don't let the fact that it's
called junk in this case mislead you.
Do pay attention,
do check that that value is no error,
because if it's not no error,
then something went wrong and you
shouldn't proceed any further.
Now,
actually asking for the right in question
requires that you wrap up the name of
the right inside a special structure
called an authorization rights structure,
and then that you call the
authorization copyrights call.
Now, in this case,
you'll notice that we're customizing
the flags to some degree.
We're asking to extend rights,
which means that we actually
want the policy subsystem
to generate a credential.
We don't just want it to
go through the motions.
If you don't specify extend rights,
then the policy engine will
simply go through the motions,
make sure that, in fact, you have the,
that you can get that right,
but it won't actually generate
a credential that says,
yes, he has it, that application has it.
Also,
authorization flag interaction allowed,
very important,
because the default is to assume
that interaction is not allowed.
And finally,
pre-authorize signifies that we
actually do want to generate a
credential that somebody else is
going to use further down the line.
There are some edge cases where
you can request extend rights and
pre-authorize and it won't succeed,
but those are edge cases typically where,
for example,
the timeout of the credential is zero.
It's not going to help you to try and
pre-authorize something with a credential
whose timeout is zero because next time
you ask for authorization somewhere else,
that authorization is not going to
succeed or it's going to require
that the user go through the
entire policy evaluation again.
So this is the dialogue that
you actually get when you
call authorization copyrights.
Now, I don't know if you can
actually read this out there,
but the first sentence
in the dialogue says,
"You must be authorized to open
low-numbered TCP ports." That's an
example of a customizable prompt.
That is something that was provided
by the Better Authorization
Sample application itself.
It helps to put the reason for
the dialogue in some context.
Now, the second sentence, however,
"Type in administrator's name
and password to allow application
name to make changes," that part
is cooked into the dialogue.
That is invariant,
and that helps to promote some
consistency of UI within the system.
One other thing to notice is
that the name field is empty.
Had I been logged in as an admin when
I took the snapshot of this dialogue,
the name field would have been
filled in with my admin username.
So that's just something to notice
in case people ask you about that.
If they don't see a name here,
it's because they weren't
logged in as an admin.
Now, assuming that the user typed in an
administrator's name and password,
and that name and password
was actually valid,
the authorization handle needs
to be sent off to the tool.
The tool is a completely
separate process.
Therefore,
simply sending across the authorization
ref as it stands will not work because
the authorization ref is something,
it's a value that's only valid within
your application's address space.
So, what we want to do is package up that
handle in some sort of external form
that the other process can absorb and
turn back into an authorization handle
that's valid within its address space.
So, what Better Authorization Sample
does first is it launches the
tool and sets up the inter-process
communication mechanism that it's
going to use to talk to that tool.
That's outside of authorization per se.
However,
Authorization Make External Form is
what Better Authorization Sample uses
to turn the authorization handle,
the authorization ref,
into some form that can
be sent between processes.
In this case, we call it an Authorization
External Form.
And there should be a space between
Authorization External Form and XedAuth.
XedAuth is the name of the variable.
Sorry about that.
And Better Authorization Sample finally
sends XedAuth to the tool via the
IPC channel that it already set up.
The tool itself goes and internalizes
the authorization ref that it got,
the externalized form of the
authorization ref that it got,
using the authorization create
from external form call.
Pretty straightforward there.
The tool then verifies that the
application actually did authorize
for the right that was required.
So the tool actually goes and calls
authorization copyrights again.
It will allow user interaction.
So if for any reason the right is no
longer granted or was never granted,
the tool itself will trigger the
user interface necessary in order
for that right to be authorized.
And finally, assuming authorization was
granted one way or another,
then the tool actually goes and gets
the loan number ports in question.
You may not be able to
read the output from there,
but basically it got
three different ports,
ports 130, 131, and 132.
Now, before it could actually get
any ports or do anything else,
Better Authorization Sample
had to install the privileged
helper tool in the first place.
Now, implicit in doing so,
it asked for the
system.privilege.admin right.
That's a special right
that's baked into the system.
The rule associated with it
is if you're running as root,
it's all good.
You're just authorized.
Otherwise, you have to authenticate
as an administrator.
The credential that gets
generated as a result is not
shared with any other process,
and that credential times
out in five minutes.
So again, in order to install the tool,
in order to actually get
system.privilege.admin,
you first have to call authorization
create to get yourself a handle.
And then Better Authorization
Sample calls Authorization
Execute with Privileges.
Authorization Execute with Privileges
is a fairly dangerous call because
what it ends up doing is it
requests system.privilege.admin
on behalf of the caller.
And if the caller succeeds
in authorizing that right,
Authorization Execute with
Privileges will execute a tool of
the caller's choosing as root via
a setUID root tool of its own.
Now, you can specify a communications
channel that you can use between
the tool that gets executed as root
and the frontmost client process.
Now, the reason authorization
execute with privileges-- oh,
sorry.
I guess we're going to see the UI first.
So this is what you see from
Better Authorization Sample when
it first needs to install the tool.
This, again,
is the dialog that you get in order
to type an admin's name and password.
Now, for this dialog, we do not allow
applications to customize.
So here you only see that you
have to type an administrator's
name and password in order for
the application to make changes.
Now, what I've done is I've opened up
the disclosure triangle here to show
some of the details because this is
something that can help you verify that,
for example,
the authorization dialog you're
getting is for your application
and not for some other application.
The requested right here
is system.privilege.admin,
and the actual application
requesting that right is,
well, it's truncated,
but it says better authorization sample,
sampleapp.app.
And you can actually get the
full path to the application if
you click on the application.
on that name, which is actually a button.
So, Authorization Execute with
Privileges runs a set UID root tool.
It does attempt to sanitize the
environment to that tool to some degree.
However, it's kind of dangerous because
there are no restrictions on the
tool that can be executed via
Authorization Execute with Privileges.
Now, this was an appropriate solution at
the time that Authorization Execute
with Privileges was introduced to OS X.
However, that was a little while ago,
and in the meantime,
we've gotten a better
solution added to the system.
It's called LaunchD.
LaunchD is how most processes are
launched on the system nowadays.
I strongly encourage you to look into
using LaunchD to do this sort of thing.
Rather than Authorization
Execute with Privileges,
now you're expecting me to explain
how you go about doing this,
and I'm going to tell you that that
requires an entirely different session.
Now, I don't know the schedule
for WWDC this year,
so I'm not sure whether that
session has already occurred,
unfortunately.
But look it up.
I'm sure that you can find some
documentation about that session.
There's certainly a lot of documentation.
There's certainly a lot of
documentation about LaunchD,
and I'll give you a few pointers at the
end of this talk to more information.
Now, you can request any arbitrary
string and call it a write.
You can request com.fubar.fu,
and the system will
respond intelligently.
It will, in all likelihood,
use the default rule to cover that write,
because com.fubar.fu certainly doesn't
ship with OS X's ETSI authorization,
and nobody's likely to have
added it to the system.
However,
if you want your write to be subject
to your specific set of mechanisms,
for instance,
then you will need to use these calls,
authorization write set and
potentially authorization write get.
Authorization Right Get, in this case,
is being called by Authorization
Sample to see whether or not the right
name already exists in the system.
If it does, Authorization Right Get will
return a CFDictionary,
that's the second argument here,
that contains the properties associated,
that is to say the rules
associated with that right.
Now, if Authorization Right Get returns
Authorization Denied,
that indicates the right
doesn't exist in the system.
So Better Authorization Sample then goes
ahead and calls Authorization Right Set,
specifying the name of the right.
The rule, if applicable.
The description,
which is a right description,
and a bundle for localizations.
Those two really are for localizations.
Those are definite courtesies that
we encourage you to make for users,
especially if you're going to be
shipping your application overseas.
And then also a description
string table name.
That's for essentially a bunch of strings
that are included in your plug-in.
Now finally, any application,
for that matter any tool,
that gets an authorization handle
needs to dispose of it properly because
otherwise you may find that authorization
state lives on in the credentials cache
where you didn't really want it to live.
Now finally, any application,
for that matter any tool,
that gets an authorization handle
needs to dispose of it properly because
otherwise you may find that authorization
state lives on in the credentials cache
where you didn't really want it to live.
The APIs generally live in
one of these header files.
Authorization.h is the main one.
Authorization.db.h is where APIs to
manipulate the policy database,
like Authorization write get
and Authorization write set,
live.
Authorization.plugin.h is where we
define the APIs and the structures
associated with plug-ins and mechanisms.
And then the
SF Authorization Plugin View,
that base class that you can
use if you want to design your
custom UI for your application,
the APIs and the structures for that
are in the Security Interface Framework
in SF Authorization Plugin View.h.
For more information,
sample code for better
authorization sample in particular
is available at this URL,
developer.apple.com/samplecode/better-
authorization-sample.
There are a couple of sample
authorization plug-ins that you can use.
Null auth plug-in is a very simple
example of how to use or how to
write an authorization plug-in.
Name and password is an example
of a plug-in that uses the
SF authorization plug-in view.
There is an excellent document
called Performing Privileged
Operations with Authorization Services.
It's also available on
developer.apple.com.
And there is a tech note specifically
for running daemons and agents via
LaunchD and via other mechanisms as well,
but we encourage you to use LaunchD.
And that tech note is
available at that URL,
which I have not memorized.
So you can take a look at the slides.
Okay, so authorization helps you to
reduce the amount of effort you
have to put in in order to take
advantage of policy on OS X.
It promotes a consistent user experience
that is nevertheless customizable.
And it encourages you to factor your
code so that you have much less code
running as root and therefore you have,
you open a much smaller window,
I should say,
to any bad guys that want to
exploit root running code on the
system to subvert the system.